[MUSIC]
In this video, we're going to see how we
can pivot data using the Query Editor.
When we talk about pivoting data,
we generally mean restructuring and
summarizing data to produce a report.
We usually do this using a pivot table,
and to be honest,
that's generally the best way.
But we can also pivot data
in the Query Editor, and
it does have certain advantages.
For example, if you are trying to
pivot that data as part of a clean or
append operation, it'd be better to do
it right there in the Query Editor.
The Query Editor also offers us one
feature that regular pivots don't.
For example, looking at our data here,
we have a list of training rooms and
what facilities are available in each.
Now, this data is well laid out for
performing analytics, but
it's actually quite hard
to glance at this data and
quickly see which feature's
available in each room.
So we would actually
like to pivot this data.
In other words,
we'd like to take each unique facility and
make it a column heading, and
then list the availability underneath.
Now, the problem with trying to do this
with a regular pivot table is regular
pivots are designed for
summarizing or aggregating data.
In other words, it's going to try and
sum or count, in this case, my features.
And that's not really what I want.
I want to be able to actually see
the values, I want to see fixture or
on request.
A regular pivot table can't help me
with this, but Query Editor can.
Let's see how it's done.
We're going to click into our data,
we're going to come to our data ribbon,
and we're going to click From Table/Range.
The next thing we need to do is decide
which column it is we're trying to pivot.
In other words, which column are we
going to turn into our column headings?
And that's going to be our facility.
So we're just going to select it.
We're then going to come
to our transform ribbon and
we're going to find
the Pivot Column button and click.
This is telling us that it's going to use
the names in the column Facility to create
new columns,
which is exactly what we want.
But it's going to put the location in
as values, and that's not what we want.
So we're going to click the drop down and
choose Available.
Now, by default, this is still going
to do an aggregation or summary.
And I'd like you to see
what that looks like.
So we're going to click OK.
And you can see it's actually counted
whether that facility is available or not.
And that's not really helpful because
I need to see if it's a fixture or
only available on request.
So let's go and change that step.
We're going to come to
the right-hand side and
you'll see a little cog
next to Pivoted Column.
We're going to click on that cog, and
that brings us back into our dialogue.
Now, this time,
we're going to come to Advanced options.
You'll see a little white
triangle to the left.
If you click on that, it will expand.
And you can see here's the problem,
it's doing count all.
If we click the drop down, however,
here's the amazing feature that
we don't have in regular pivots,
the option to not aggregate.
In other words, return the actual values.
We're going to select that and
then say OK.
And there is our pivoted data.
We're now ready to close and load.
So I'm going to click my
Home ribbon > Close & Load.
We'll just put it into a new worksheet.
Let's give the sheet sensible name.
So I'm going to double-click and
we're going to call this Room Facilities.
And what we've seen there is how
we can use the Query Editor to
pivot data without aggregating it.
In the next video,
we're going to see another way of
summarizing data in the Query Editor,
called grouping.